SIGMA-ALDRICH

sigma-aldrich.com
SAFETY DATA SHEET
Version 4.5 Revision Date 08/05/2014
Print Date 12/03/2015

1. PRODUCT AND COMPANY IDENTIFICATION

Product name

: Dansylhydrazine

Product Number Brand Product Use

: 30434 : Sigma : For laboratory research purposes.

Supplier
Telephone Fax Emergency Phone # (For both supplier and manufacturer) Preparation Information

: Sigma-Aldrich Canada Co. 2149 Winston Park Drive OAKVILLE ON L6H 6J8 CANADA
: +1 9058299500 : +1 9058299292 : 1-800-424-9300

Manufactur er

: Sigma-Aldrich Corporation 3050 Spruce St. St. Louis, Missouri 63103 USA

: Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Product Safety - Americas Region 1-800-521-8956

2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION

Emergency Overview

WHMIS Classification

D2B

Toxic Material Causing Other Toxic Effects

GHS Classification Skin irritation (Category 2) Eye irritation (Category 2A) Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure (Category 3)
GHS Label elements, including precautionary statements
Pictogram

Moderate skin irritant Moderate respiratory irritant Moderate eye irritant

Signal word

Warning

Hazard statement(s) H315 H319 H335

Causes skin irritation. Causes serious eye irritation. May cause respiratory irritation.

Precautionary statement(s) P261 P305 + P351 + P338

Avoid breathing dust/ fume/ gas/ mist/ vapours/ spray. IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue rinsing.

HMIS Classification Health hazard: Flammability: Physical hazards:

2 0 0

Potential Health Effects
Sigma - 30434

Page 1 of 6

Inhalation Skin Eyes Ingestion

May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation. May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation. Causes eye irritation. May be harmful if swallowed.

3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS

Synonyms

: 5-(Dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonohydrazide 5-(Dimethylamino)-1-naphthalenesulfonic hydrazide

Formula Molecular Weight

: C12H15N3O2S C12H15N3O2S : 265.33 g/mol

CAS-No.

EC-No.

Index-No.

5-Dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulphonohydrazide

33008-06-9

251-337-7

-

Concentration
<=100%

4. FIRST AID MEASURES
General advice Consult a physician. Show this safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance.Move out of dangerous area.
If inhaled If breathed in, move person into fresh air. If not breathing, give artificial respiration. Consult a physician.
In case of skin contact Wash off with soap and plenty of water. Consult a physician.
In case of eye contact Rinse thoroughly with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician.
If swallowed Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Rinse mouth with water. Consult a physician.

5. FIREFIGHTING MEASURES
Conditions of flammability Not flammable or combustible.
Suitable extinguishing media Use water spray, alcohol-resistant foam, dry chemical or carbon dioxide.
Special protective equipment for firefighters Wear self contained breathing apparatus for fire fighting if necessary.
Hazardous combustion products
Explosion data - sensitivity to mechanical impact no data available
Explosion data - sensitivity to static discharge no data available

6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal precautions Use personal protective equipment. Avoid dust formation. Avoid breathing vapours, mist or gas. Ensure adequate ventilation. Evacuate personnel to safe areas. Avoid breathing dust.
Environmental precautions Do not let product enter drains.
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up Pick up and arrange disposal without creating dust. Sweep up and shovel. Keep in suitable, closed containers for disposal.

7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Sigma - 30434

Page 2 of 6

Precautions for safe handling Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Avoid formation of dust and aerosols. Provide appropriate exhaust ventilation at places where dust is formed.
Conditions for safe storage Keep container tightly closed in a dry and well-ventilated place.
Recommended storage temperature: 2 - 8 °C
Keep in a dry place. Keep in a dry place.

8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Personal protective equipment
Respiratory protection For nuisance exposures use type P95 (US) or type P1 (EU EN 143) particle respirator.For higher level protection use type OV/AG/P99 (US) or type ABEK-P2 (EU EN 143) respirator cartridges. Use respirators and components tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH (US) or CEN (EU).
Hand protection Handle with gloves. Gloves must be inspected prior to use. Use proper glove removal technique (without touching glove's outer surface) to avoid skin contact with this product. Dispose of contaminated gloves after use in accordance with applicable laws and good laboratory practices. Wash and dry hands.
Full contact Material: Nitrile rubber Minimum layer thickness: 0.11 mm Break through time: 480 min Material tested:Dermatril® (KCL 740 / Aldrich Z677272, Size M)
Splash contact Material: Nitrile rubber Minimum layer thickness: 0.11 mm Break through time: 480 min Material tested:Dermatril® (KCL 740 / Aldrich Z677272, Size M)
data source: KCL GmbH, D-36124 Eichenzell, phone +49 (0)6659 87300, e-mail sales@kcl.de, test method: EN374 If used in solution, or mixed with other substances, and under conditions which differ from EN 374, contact the supplier of the CE approved gloves. This recommendation is advisory only and must be evaluated by an industrial hygienist and safety officer familiar with the specific situation of anticipated use by our customers. It should not be construed as offering an approval for any specific use scenario.

Eye protection Safety glasses with side-shields conforming to EN166 Use equipment for eye protection tested and approved under appropriate government standards such as NIOSH (US) or EN 166(EU).

Skin and body protection impervious clothing, The type of protective equipment must be selected according to the concentration and amount of the dangerous substance at the specific workplace.

Hygiene measures Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety practice. Wash hands before breaks and at the end of workday.

Specific engineering controls Use mechanical exhaust or laboratory fumehood to avoid exposure. 9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES

Appearance

Form

powder

Colour

light yellow

Safety data

pH no data available

Melting
Sigma - 30434

Melting point/range: 126 - 130 °C (259 - 266 °F) - lit.

Page 3 of 6

point/freezing point Boiling point Flash point Ignition temperature Auto-ignition temperature Lower explosion limit Upper explosion limit Vapour pressure Density Water solubility Partition coefficient: n-octanol/water Relative vapour density Odour Odour Threshold Evapouration rate

no data available no data available no data available no data available
no data available no data available no data available no data available no data available no data available
no data available
no data available no data available no data available

10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical stability Stable under recommended storage conditions.
Possibility of hazardous reactions no data available
Conditions to avoid no data available
Materials to avoid Strong oxidizing agents
Hazardous decomposition products Hazardous decomposition products formed under fire conditions. - Carbon oxides, nitrogen oxides (NOx), Sulphur oxides Other decomposition products - no data available

11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Acute toxicity
Oral LD50 no data available
Inhalation LC50 no data available
Dermal LD50 no data available
Other information on acute toxicity no data available
Skin corrosion/irritation no data available
Serious eye damage/eye irritation no data available
Respiratory or skin sensitisation
Sigma - 30434

Page 4 of 6

no data available
Germ cell mutagenicity no data available

Carcinogenicity

IARC:

No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC.

ACGIH:

No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is identified as a carcinogen or potential carcinogen by ACGIH.

Reproductive toxicity

no data available Teratogenicity no data available

Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure (Globally Harmonized System) Inhalation - May cause respiratory irritation.

Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure (Globally Harmonized System) no data available

Aspiration hazard no data available

Potential health effects

Inhalation Ingestion Skin Eyes

May be harmful if inhaled. Causes respiratory tract irritation. May be harmful if swallowed. May be harmful if absorbed through skin. Causes skin irritation. Causes eye irritation.

Signs and Symptoms of Exposure To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not been thoroughly investigated.

Synergistic effects no data available

Additional Information RTECS: Not available

12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicity
no data available
Persistence and degradability no data available
Bioaccumulative potential no data available
Mobility in soil no data available
PBT and vPvB assessment no data available
Other adverse effects
no data available

13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Sigma - 30434

Page 5 of 6

Product Offer surplus and non-recyclable solutions to a licensed disposal company. Contact a licensed professional waste disposal service to dispose of this material.
Contaminated packaging Dispose of as unused product.

14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION DOT (US) Not dangerous goods
IMDG Not dangerous goods
IATA Not dangerous goods

15. REGULATORY INFORMATION

WHMIS Classification

D2B

Toxic Material Causing Other Toxic Effects

Moderate skin irritant

Moderate respiratory irritant

Moderate eye irritant

This product has been classified in accordance with the hazard criteria of the Controlled Products Regulations and the MSDS contains all the information required by the Controlled Products Regulations.

16. OTHER INFORMATION
Further information Copyright 2014 Sigma-Aldrich Co. LLC. License granted to make unlimited paper copies for internal use only. The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive and shall be used only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the present state of our knowledge and is applicable to the product with regard to appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee of the properties of the product. Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and its Affiliates shall not be held liable for any damage resulting from handling or from contact with the above product. See www.sigma-aldrich.com and/or the reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional terms and conditions of sale.

Sigma - 30434

Page 6 of 6

